Take one problem you have worked on this semester that you struggled to understand and solve, and explain how the struggle itself was valuable. In the context of this question, describe the struggle and how you overcame the struggle. You might also discuss whether struggling built aspects of character in you (e.g. endurance, self-confidence, competence to solve new problems) and how these virtues might benefit you in later ventures.
Rhylan Thomas:  During the semester I struggled with some of the word problems. I had to do a lot of thinking to remember what i learned early in the semester. Doing this, I was able to complete the problem correctly even though it was difficult and I struggled doing so. I think struggling on problems and in life helps turn you into the person you truly are and challenges you to perservere and become a better person.	1
Lucy Burgess:   (I don't have very much of my work with me, so this is just one of the problems I've looked at recently.)</br>  I struggled to fully understand and solve Q10, and the reason this question stands out to me is because even when I looked back at where I had gone wrong on final preview, I still couldn't figure it out. I had the working out and the answer for the question because we had been over it in class, but I still didn't totally understand it. There were bits of the Q10 that I understood (looking at the question visually helped a lot) but I couldn't bring it all together. It was frustrating to understand elements of it (e.g. 2mph -/+ current; 'BA=1.5AB') but to not know how to go about actually answering it. This forced me to be resilient and to keep looking at the problem from different perspectives (i.e. I had worked it out differently from the way shown in class). I also wanted to understand what I had done wrong in my original answer. Basically this probably wasn't the best answer to give because I'm still figuring it out, but I know this question has taught me the importance of perseverance!	1
Ethan Rae:      When we did the short lesson on coding in python it was a little bit of a struggle for me. The system was completely new to me and I had no idea how it works. I was curious to find out and followed the exact steps. Then was able to use my computer as a calculator or to process numbers and patterns. This part of the class was challenging and valuable.	1
Jesse Scharfer: i dont think i can say with any certainty there was any problem specifically that i struggled with in itself had value, but I must say the struggle i had with every problem this semester was of value, as if I didnt have any struggles I wouldnt have any character, and i wouldnt be able to grow making this class pointless for me. the whole point of struggle is to learn and grow, and that is exactly why i took this class, and why im at this school. I am not the best mathematician and i did struggle alot with equations this semester, but they were all worth it because if i never had those struggles i would never know how to solve them still. 	1
Senator Zavala: Overall, coming into USC, I considered math my worst subject. I know my math proficiency is not what got me here. I think something that was valuable to my confidence was taking the practice test before studying the material. I did feel challenged to the verge of panic at first. Going to classes and taking the quizzes, the knowledge really snuck up on me. When it was time for the midterm, I was surprised to realize I now knew how to do all the problems. That was a huge confidence booster for me. As lost as I felt at the start, it felt like it wasn't even the same test the second time around. I still would not say I'm comfortable with math, but I feel confident I will meet my degree requirements. I honestly felt nervous about it coming into USC.	1

What mathematical ideas are you curious to know more about as a result of taking this class? Give one example of a question about the material that you'd like to explore further, and describe why this is an interesting question to you.
Rhylan Thomas:  I would like to learn more about computer science in the future. I like the idea of computer programming, but I also have no idea what it really is all about. I feel like there is a lot that can be done with it, so it interests me.
George Varela:  Mathematical ideas I'm curious to know more about is graphs and equations. I'm an economics major, so it's going to become a heavy emphasis on understanding graphs. Even calculating them. Furthermore, I might get into research under the economics dept, which will require even more dedication to graph. Of course, one day I do I plan to work in government and be able to use this culminated knowledge to write legislation. 
Ethan Rae:      The python coding is very interesting. I feel like it is very valuable because not a ton of people know how to use it. The system can become vital and save a lot of time in the business world as well. I want to expand my knowledge on this and all maths we had learned.
Chase Locke:    i am curious to learn more about the interaction between the quadratic formula and how it translates into something in the real world like graphing earnings for business. The finding the root of the problem allows for you to pinpoint certain areas on a graph. This is something I wonder if it could be used to find the earnings of a company at a specific time or what hurt a company at a specific time. Or if it would be able to find what areas could be covered based on more of a geographic perspective. A lot of different ways this formula could be used.
Jesse Scharfer: as a result of taking this class, i am definitely more curious in taking statistical math classes. i love solving word math problems, as along with figuring out what they are asking of you you have to figure out how to solve it too and it more fun to me for some reason then just being given a problem with numbers and being told to solve.
Marco Heras:    I am curious to continue learning about exponential growth. I am an economics major, so this is something my subject deals with. Furthermore, it's interesting to learn about exponential growth in such things like COVID-19. A question really off the top of my head is what is the exponential growth of the world's population? I am interested to see if we're increasing or declining and by how much. It's interesting to me because I'm interested to see how much people dying on a daily basis affects the exponential growth of the population. Lastly, I'd like to see what this looks like WAY in the future to see if we would overpopulate this world.

How has your mathematical imagination been enhanced as a result of taking this class? Learning new ways of solving problems can change the way that you look at the world. Did scientific notation help you to make sense of the size of the stimulus package? Did you think about the connections to roots of polynomials while playing catch with a friend? Did you think about linear equations while estimating how long it would take to get somewhere while driving? Did you think about how repeated addition is multiplication and repeated multiplication is exponentiation—is there such a thing as repeated exponentiation?
Chase Williams: It is cool to see that math can be used in many forms. I believe the most interesting part of class was when we did the problem on water in a box. We had to guess how much the water weighed in the box, and the math behind it was really interesting. Doing this problem makes me think of how i could use that math for my pool or any other large container with something in it. 
Rhylan Thomas:  I think that learning new ways to do problems and being more interactive while doing so was beneficial to my understanding and learning. I feel like I retained information a lot better and mastered the skills I was learning more quickly compared to other classes that I have taken. I did not really think of math outside of the classroom, but while i was doing work I was engaged and tried to understand why an answer was what it was. If ever I did do something mathematically related to the class, I would remember learning it.
Lucy Burgess:   As someone who, for the best part of the last 3yrs, has only studied humanities subjects, it was refreshing to have to look at things from a different, more logical, point of view. Taking this class has reminded me that math isn't totally scary (!) and that looking at things from a mathematical perspective can be quite satisfying - e.g. algebra. Both in terms of math and in general, it showed me that one thing can be presented in different ways without losing its meaning - e.g. rearranging equations/numbers (√49 = 7^1/2; 34,000,000 = 3.4x10^7). Before taking this class, I felt like I was 'bad' at math and would never be able to understand things (or get the right answer). Whereas now, even though I know there is a right/wrong answer (and I don't always get it!), I believe 'understanding' is something that you can learn/teach yourself, so not understanding something is not the same as being bad at it. Understanding a question/concept is also much more important than any answer. This class made me appreciate - and enjoy?! - math again because it expanded by mathematical imagination.
Ethan Rae:      From the moment we did the problems about the distance to the moon I realized math can be used in many real life scenarios. Along with the question on finding the volume of water in a large lake. It is easier to want to learn math and be more curious on the subject with ideas like this. These problems made me more sensible to numbers and realizing what is needed for certain calculations on distance, height, depth.
Chase Locke:    My mathematical imagination has definitely expanded in this class. I have found different ways to solve problems than I have been taught before. This will carry over into other concepts and sometimes help me with a problem I am stuck on. Being mathematically resourceful will benefit me in the real world so this was an awesome trait to pick up. It definitely has changed the way I see certain things that have been talked about through word problems.
Jesse Scharfer: As a result of taking this class, I have definitely seen myself learn a number of new ways to solve mathematical equations. Growing up, in regards to math, i never liked showing my work as i always preferred to do it in my head, and use a calculator to do calculations i couldn't. I never had any issues in high school, but while we were there at school your class and you showed your work on the board, it  really opened my mind up to new ways of solving problems as ive always just used tricks in my mind but never before was really able to properly show work. 
Senator Zavala: I think the thing that first got my "math imagination" going was the math trick where you guessed the number. I had seen the Alan Turing movie "The Imitation Game." Seeing the trick it was like seeing the computations in real-time. I think of math now as more of a language I need to study in order to be able to understand and speak. I struggled with the order of operations, even knowing PEMDAS. Knowing to think of the difference between (-3)^2 and -3^2 is something I now think to catch. I have always heard the key to learning a  language is learning to think in the language. The concept of folding a paper to the moon really got me thinking.
Marco Heras:    This course has basically improved the toolset I use to tackle mathematical problems and even life in a mathematical way. For instance, the use of scientific notation makes incredibly large unfathomable numbers more realistic and able to be solved. By simplifying a number into a smaller version, I can compute larger examples. Another thing that adds to my imagination is linear equations.  I've always struggled with linear equations but have always been interested in them. I appreciate their incredible applicability. Now when I think about how long it will take to reach something like a destination, I can confidently reach a conclusion.
Ryan Jarvis:    Prior to taking this class, I looked at mathematics the same way I would look at paint drying on a wall or a root canal: with great discomfort. In high school, math class was filled with rote memorization and proof writing that lacked the simplicity and elegance of this course. In reverting back to the basics of simple math, I was able to visualize math as the order for which the world derives its meaning. While I look at the specific mathematical concepts in the same light as I did before, it is the general application of math (especially in the lecture discussing exponential growth as it pertained to COVID) that has finally shifted into focus for me.

Consider one mathematical idea from the course that you have found beautiful, and explain why it is beautiful to you. Your answer should: (1) explain the idea in a way that could be understood by a friend or sibling who has not yet taken a class like this and (2) address how this beauty is similar to or different from other kinds of beauty that human beings encounter.
Rhylan Thomas:  I think that learning how to find a combination of food and the different amounts of numbers we could use to make one type of food was pretty cool. I think that learning how many options there can be with such little ingredients was awesome. Not everybody understands this concept so I was interested. Other people may find this normal, but others would not understand it.  If someone were to like food, figuring out all the different combinations they could use to make their favorite meal could be considered beautiful to them.
Jesse Scharfer: One mathematical Idea from the course that we discussed before leaving for covid was Scientific notation. scientific notation while quite simple to learn offers an easy way to describe absurdly big numbers in more simple terms. i can take a number in the millions or billions and without having to read it ad count each zero i can simplify it by making it a number between 1and 10 times 10 to the power of however many number zeros come after the beginning numbers.
Ryan Jarvis:    A mathematical idea from this course that I found beautiful was the complex simplicity of the Pythagorean Theorem. While this might sound crazy to the uninitiated (it seems that the two things nobody forgets from their high school education is a squared plus b squared equals c squared and that Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin), what once only stuck out in my mind due to the theorem's correspondence with right triangles. But upon further investigation, pi can be derived from the Pythagorean Theorem as well as distance in Euclidean space. This beauty is rather similar to the infinity of the cosmos, where concrete numbers can be counted to infinity while real number count up to a greater infinity.

Give one example of a mathematical idea from this class that you found creative, and explain what you find creative about it. For example, you can choose an instance of creativity you experienced in your own problem-solving, or something you witnessed in another person's reasoning. Perhaps you liked how someone conceptualized exponents; maybe you thought that graphing inequalities was a clever idea.
Lucy Burgess:   I find the idea of graphing things really creative because there's something about turning numbers into 'pictures' that makes them easier to understand. Graphing helped me understand everything from polynomials to inequalities better this semester - I think it was because graphs felt like 'proof' of the numbers to me. On paper, I found domain and range a bit challenging; however, as soon as I looked at them on a graph, I felt like I understood them better/they made sense. The same was true of inequalities. I've also always struggled a bit to get my head around linear equations in general (I can't just picture them in my head) and I'm still figuring out how to learn about them (e.g. the direction they go in) without seeing them, but drawing them out on a graph has helped me massively. Graphing has enabled me to understand things I found rather complex/overwhelming before and made them less intimidating.
Chase Locke:    I think a creative concept is the scientific notation. Being able to take advantage of the exponent and the relationship with 10. This allows for very large estimates or decimals to be simplified and read easier. This method almost is a dissection of the number simplifying it to two parts, the smallest version before the zeros. This is a method that is different in my opinion from any other way to show a simplified number.

Did you have an "aha!" moment this term? Was there a time that you finally understood something and thought, why didn't Peter just explain it this way? Tell me about the concept and the way you found it helpful to think about it.
Chase Williams: I had an aha moment when learning about exponents. When combining exponents, it seems a lot more simple than it actually is. At first, multiplication of exponents seemed really easy, then you add parentheses and the way you combine them completely switches up. When i got to learn this concept of how things change based on specific rules, it began to make sense and i was able to solve other problems much faster with an easier understanding. 
George Varela:  There was a moment where you had kept explaining how to simplify fractions when trying to solve for an equation. It was always you being very careful so that the class wouldn't be confused, but at one point I realized I could simplify fractions much quicker. It was not so much that your method was wrong it was just I realized I could do it much quicker but just doing it faster. I didn't have to write everything out when finding common denominators.
Senator Zavala: I think I had these moments constantly in the class.   I could not pick one-time   in particular  . I think I need to see things over and over before they stick. I really liked the structure of the class                                   for that reason. I liked the TA going over the material before the quiz after we had gone over it in class before, then after the quiz the opportunity to retake after going over it one on one. Seeing the problems over and over and thinking about solving them over and over really helped me and fit my learning style. I preferred the in-person class, but I was glad to be in this class.  <br class="Apple-interchange-newline">

Was there a time in this class or during this exam where you were able to make sense of a problem by thinking visually? Do your best to draw a picture of how you visualized something, and briefly describe how it helped you to reason through the problem.
George Varela:  On question 5 where it has the distance formula. I was struggling to remember how it worked, but after the plotting the points I saw that they had to be plugged in. At least one point had to be plugged in twice because the first point will connect to the last point. It was a triangle, after all. So there I figured how to plot all three points into the distance formula.  And thank god I didn't get stuck. 
Jesse Scharfer: often times I think of problems visually. since a young age i was taught to imagine a giant chalkboard in my head and write in my mind what i would on a paper. it often works faster for me and i write down only large numbers I need to remember. For some topics in math this works well, others it makes it super difficult for me to solve a problem.

Give me the link for a video that helped you understand something or that inspired you. Perhaps a Khan Academy video helped you understand factoring better. Maybe a 3Blue1Brown video showed you how to count to 1023 on your fingers, or just had some really cool designs.
Chase Williams: <a href="https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra-home/alg-basic-eq-ineq/alg-old-school-equations/v/algebra-linear-equations-4">https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra-home/alg-basic-eq-ineq/alg-old-school-equations/v/algebra-linear-equations-4</a
Lucy Burgess:   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AXlBBfVJQU</br> I definitely struggled with polynomials at first, and it took me quite a bit of YouTube/Google to figure them out. This guy makes really simple, easy-to-understand videos, which I found super useful, especially for homework problems. This particular video stands out in my memory as being the most helpful (literally went through my watch history from like a month ago to find it so it must have been really memorable!)
Marco Heras:     <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kas0tIxDvrg&t=363s" style="text-decoration: none;">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kas0tIxDvrg&amp;t=363s</a> </br>  <p dir="ltr" style="margin-top: 0.0pt;margin-bottom: 10.0pt;">The video you linked us about COVID-19 really helped me understand the positive effects of social distancing and wearing masks. It inspired me to believe in the mitigation techniques we've adopted. Also like I put in another answer, I really do enjoy seeing exponential growth explained. I really like thinking about the future, so being able to track something well into the future with mathematical certainty satisfies my curiosity about things in play. With COVID-19, for example, it satisfied my curious itch to see how crazy this thing can become in the future. With the visual of it now in my head, I have some bliss knowing I won't be surprised if we reach that point. Moreover, the social distancing growth curve provides some relief seeing how effective we can be in mitigating this virus. Overall, I appreciated and enjoyed the video. </br>
Ryan Jarvis:    <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6yixyiJcos">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6yixyiJcos</a></br> As an aspiring storyteller, I found great inspiration throughout this course in thinking of mathematics as a language of its own. Universal in scope in the same manner as music, the use of math as a language in order to solve complicated problems inspires the part of me that looks at the world as simply a series of problems that need to be solved over time. Whether this train of thought has led to countless hours of YouTube binging (ranging from videos detailing the graphing of  infinity to the mathematics behind the technology of quantum computing)  or the understanding that mathematics, like English or Mandarin, is a language most people are proficient at but not masters, this video (and MATH040 as a whole) has caused me to finally realize the importance of math beyond the "1"s and "0"s.
